.TH KIRO-LINT 8 "2026-05-19" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-lint \- lint Kiro system configuration files for errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-lint
[\fB\-\-source\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-lint
is a static analyser for the configuration files deployed by Kiro.
It checks the live system (default) or a repository checkout
and reports issues with PASS/FAIL/WARN/SKIP markers.
.PP
Checks performed:
.IP 1. 4
.B Sysctl duplicate keys
\(em detects the same key set more than once in
.I /etc/sysctl.d/*.conf
(the last value wins; earlier assignments are silently ignored).
.IP 2. 4
.B Modprobe parameters vs sysfs
\(em for each loaded module, verifies that every
.I options
parameter in
.I /etc/modprobe.d/*.conf
exists under
.IR /sys/module/<driver>/parameters/ .
.IP 3. 4
.B Cross-file conflicts
\(em flags the same driver parameter set to different values in
different modprobe.d files, and warns when a udev ATTR write would silently
override a modprobe.d setting with a different value.
.IP 4. 4
.B Udev ATTR write targets in sysfs
\(em for rules that write to an
.B ATTR{}
path, verifies that the path exists on at least one matching live device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-source " path"
Root of the config tree to analyse (default:
.IR / ).
Pass the repository checkout path for pre-deployment checks:
.PP
.RS 8
.EX
kiro-lint --source /path/to/edu-system-files
.EE
.RE
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed or produced only warnings.
.TP
.B 1
One or more checks failed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sysctl.d/
Sysctl configuration files analysed by check 1.
.TP
.I /etc/modprobe.d/
Modprobe options files analysed by checks 2 and 3.
.TP
.I /etc/udev/rules.d/
Udev rules analysed by checks 3 and 4.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-common.sh
Shared library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
kiro-lint
kiro-lint --source ~/EDU/edu-system-files
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-verify (8),
.BR sysctl (8),
.BR modprobe (8),
.BR udevadm (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
