.TH KIRO-VERIFY 8 "2026-05-19" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-verify \- verify Kiro system configuration is correctly applied
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-verify
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-verify
checks that the runtime state of the system matches the configuration
files deployed by Kiro.
Unlike
.BR kiro-audit (8)
which checks installed packages and post-install cleanup,
.B kiro-verify
focuses on whether the deployed config files are actually taking effect.
.PP
Checks performed:
.IP \(bu 4
Config file presence: all expected files under
.IR /etc/sysctl.d/ ,
.IR /etc/systemd/ ,
.IR /etc/modprobe.d/ ,
.IR /etc/udev/rules.d/ ,
.IR /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/ ,
and
.IR /etc/pacman.d/hooks/ .
.IP \(bu 4
Sysctl runtime values: each key in
.I /etc/sysctl.d/99-kiro-optimizations.conf
matched against the live kernel value.
.IP \(bu 4
ZRAM: device present, active as swap, zstd compression.
.IP \(bu 4
IO schedulers: correct scheduler per device type
(none for NVMe/VirtIO, bfq for SSDs and eMMC, mq-deadline for HDDs).
.IP \(bu 4
Transparent Huge Pages: defrag=defer+madvise, shmem_enabled=advise.
.IP \(bu 4
Blacklisted modules: iTCO_wdt, sp5100_tco, evbug not loaded.
.IP \(bu 4
Systemd unit state: no failed units; kiro-pci-latency and zram-setup successful.
.IP \(bu 4
Journal error scan: boot errors, kiro-related warnings, dmesg errors, udev errors.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit (does not require root).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit (does not require root).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed or produced only warnings.
.TP
.B 1
One or more checks failed, or insufficient privileges.
.SH NOTES
Must be run as root:
.B sudo kiro-verify
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-audit (8),
.BR kiro-lint (8),
.BR sysctl (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
