.TH KIRO-ENABLE-SSH 8 "2026-05-19" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-enable-ssh \- install openssh, enable sshd, and allow SSH through the firewall
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-enable-ssh
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-enable-ssh
installs the
.B openssh
package, immediately enables and starts the
.B sshd
systemd service, and \(em when
.B firewalld
is present \(em allows the
.B ssh
service through the firewall so the machine becomes reachable via SSH in a single step.
.PP
Must be run as root.
.PP
The script performs the following steps in order:
.IP 1. 4
Installs
.B openssh
via
.BR pacman\ -S\ openssh\ --noconfirm .
.IP 2. 4
Enables and starts the
.B sshd
service via
.BR systemctl\ enable\ --now\ sshd .
.IP 3. 4
When
.B firewall-cmd
is available, permanently allows the
.B ssh
service in firewalld via
.BR firewall-cmd\ --permanent\ --add-service=ssh ,
reloading the daemon if it is running.
Skipped silently when firewalld is not installed.
This step is idempotent \(em if ssh is already allowed (firewalld's default
.B public
zone permits it) the command is a harmless no-op.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print every command that would be executed without making any changes to the
system.
Useful for auditing the sequence of operations before running for real.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All steps completed (or simulated in dry-run mode).
.TP
.B 1
Script was not run as root, or an unknown option was supplied.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-common.sh
Shared library providing logging, colour output, and
.B execute_or_dryrun
support.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preview all operations without making changes:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
sudo kiro-enable-ssh --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.PP
Install openssh and start sshd immediately:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
sudo kiro-enable-ssh
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8),
.BR sshd (8),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR firewall-cmd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
