.TH KIRO-CALAMARES-LOG 8 "2026-06-01" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-calamares-log \- summarise the Calamares installer log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-calamares-log
[\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-full\fR]
[\fB\-\-scrub\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-save\fR \fR[\fIFILE\fR]]
[\fB\-\-upload\fR]
.br
.B kiro-calamares-log
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-calamares-log
reads the Calamares installer log
.RI ( /var/log/Calamares.log )
and prints a short, readable summary instead of the raw,
thousand-line dump.
.PP
Only the
.B last
install session in the log is summarised \(em the file accumulates
across multiple Calamares launches, and only the most recent run is
relevant after an install.
.PP
The default report has five parts:
.RS 2
.IP \(bu 2
.B Header
\(em log path, Calamares launch and install-start times, Calamares
version, branding component, target disk, user and hostname.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Timeline
\(em every install job in order with its duration, computed from the
gap to the next job. Kiro-specific modules
.RI ( kiro_remove_nvidia ", " chwd ", " kiro_final ,
etc.) are marked with an asterisk.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Warnings
\(em only genuine
.I WARNING
lines; benign Qt, chcon, EFI-probe and branding noise that appears on
every healthy install is filtered out.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Errors
\(em error lines, failed jobs and Python tracebacks. Empty on a clean
install.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Verdict
\(em a one-line
.I INSTALL CLEAN
or
.I INSTALL HAD N ERROR(S)
result. Completion is detected by Calamares reaching its final job
.RI ( "Saving files for later" ).
.RE
.PP
It pairs with
.BR kiro-audit (8):
.B kiro-audit
checks the installed system against the intended specification, while
.B kiro-calamares-log
explains what the installer itself did.
.PP
The log is world-readable, so the tool does not require root.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-full
Append the full raw session log, including the verbose command-output
lines hidden from the summary.
.TP
.B \-\-scrub
Redact the hostname, username and IP addresses to placeholders. Use
before sharing the output.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " "\-\-save " [\fIFILE\fR]
Write the summary, as colour-free plain text, to
.IR FILE .
With no
.IR FILE ,
defaults to
.IR ~/kiro-calamares-summary-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.txt .
.TP
.B \-\-upload
Upload the summary to a paste host and print the resulting URL. This
option implies
.B \-\-scrub
so that no hostname, username or IP address leaves the machine.
Requires
.BR curl (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/Calamares.log
The Calamares installer log read by this script.
.SH EXAMPLES
Print the install summary:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-calamares-log
.EE
.RE
.PP
Save a scrubbed copy to share with support:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-calamares-log --scrub --save ~/install-report.txt
.EE
.RE
.PP
Upload a scrubbed summary and get a link:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-calamares-log --upload
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-audit (8),
.BR kiro-verify (8),
.BR curl (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
