.TH KIRO-PROBE-REPORT 8 "2026-05-31" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-probe-report \- generate an HTML insight report from a saved hw-probe package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-probe-report
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-open\fR]
[\fIPROBE\fR]
[\fIOUTPUT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-probe-report
produces a single self-contained, colour-coded HTML page for offline hardware
insight: a system summary, a device-status overview (works / detected /
failed), a grouped device table and collapsible raw log sections, read from a
.B hw-probe
package's
.IR host ", " devices " and " logs/
data.
.PP
Run with no
.I PROBE
argument it is self-sufficient and resolves, in order:
.IP 1. 4
an existing report at
.IR ~/hw-probe-report.html " \(em it is shown as is;"
.IP 2. 4
a saved probe (\fI./hw.info.txz\fR, \fI./hw.info\fR, or the same in the home
directory) \(em it is rendered, no root needed;
.IP 3. 4
nothing yet \(em a hardware probe is run via
.BR "sudo kiro-probe \-\-save ~" ,
which asks for root and, after a few minutes, builds the report.
.PP
Rendering an existing probe needs no root; only case 3 escalates. When run in
a desktop session, a notification is shown once the report is ready in the home
directory (via
.BR notify-send ,
if available).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be executed without writing any file.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-open
Open the finished report in the default browser
.RB ( xdg\-open ).
.TP
.I PROBE
Path to an
.I hw.info.txz
archive or an
.I hw.info
directory. When omitted, the self-sufficient resolution described above is
used.
.TP
.I OUTPUT
HTML file to write. Defaults to
.I hw-probe-report.html
next to the probe.
.SH PRIVACY
The collapsed raw-log sections (dmidecode, smartctl, lsblk) embed hardware
serial numbers. The report is for local diagnostics and is marked local-only;
do not publish, upload or share the generated file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-probe-report.py
The HTML generator invoked by this wrapper.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-common.sh
Shared library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
kiro-probe-report ~/Documents/hw.info.txz
kiro-probe-report ./hw.info report.html
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-probe (8),
.BR hw-probe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
