.TH KIRO-FIX-PACMAN-KEYS 8 "2026-05-19" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-fix-pacman-keys \- fix pacman GPG keys and sync database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-fix-pacman-keys
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-fix-pacman-keys
repairs a broken pacman GPG keyring and stale sync database.
It is useful when package operations fail with signature or database errors,
typically after a long period without updating or after a clock skew event.
.PP
The script performs the following steps in order:
.IP 1. 4
If network connectivity is available, installs the latest
.B archlinux-keyring
package to ensure known-good keys are present before the keyring is rebuilt.
.IP 2. 4
Removes stale
.B .db
and
.B .db.sig
files from
.IR /var/lib/pacman/sync/ .
.IP 3. 4
Wipes
.I /etc/pacman.d/gnupg/
and reinitialises it with
.BR pacman-key\ --init .
.IP 4. 4
Repopulates the keyring with all officially trusted keys via
.BR pacman-key\ --populate .
.IP 5. 4
Appends
.B keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80
to
.I /etc/pacman.d/gnupg/gpg.conf
so key lookups fall back to a reliable public keyserver.
.IP 6. 4
Refreshes the pacman sync databases with
.BR pacman\ -Sy .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print every command that would be executed without making any changes to the
system.
Useful for auditing the sequence of operations before running for real.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All steps completed (or simulated in dry-run mode).
.TP
.B 1
An unknown option was supplied.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/pacman/sync/
Pacman sync database directory.
Stale \fB.db\fR and \fB.db.sig\fR files are removed from here.
.TP
.I /etc/pacman.d/gnupg/
Pacman GPG keyring directory.
Wiped and reinitialised by this script.
.TP
.I /etc/pacman.d/gnupg/gpg.conf
GPG configuration for pacman.
The Ubuntu keyserver line is appended here.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-common.sh
Shared library providing logging, colour output, connectivity checks,
and \fBexecute_or_dryrun\fR support.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preview all operations without making changes:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-fix-pacman-keys --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run the full repair:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-fix-pacman-keys
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8),
.BR pacman-key (8),
.BR gpg (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
