.TH KIRO-PCI-LATENCY 8 "2026-05-19" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-pci-latency \- set PCI bus latency timers for all devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-pci-latency
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-pci-latency
calls
.BR setpci (8)
to program the PCI latency timer register on all bus devices.
Tuning this register reduces bus contention and can improve audio stability
and I/O throughput under mixed workloads.
.PP
Three timer values are set:
.IP 1. 4
All devices (\fI*:*\fR): 20 cycles — a conservative default that limits
bus monopolisation without starving any device.
.IP 2. 4
Northbridge / host bridge (\fI0:0\fR): 0 cycles — disables the timer so
the host controller is never interrupted during internal bus arbitration.
.IP 3. 4
Multimedia audio devices (class \fI04xx\fR): 80 cycles — higher value
prevents audio crackling when I/O activity is high.
.PP
.B setpci
returns non-zero for devices that do not implement the latency register
(e.g. PCIe root ports); these errors are silently ignored.
.B kiro-pci-latency
is normally run as a oneshot systemd service at boot via
.IR /etc/systemd/system/kiro-pci-latency.service .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit (does not require root).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit (does not require root).
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be executed without making any changes.
.SH NOTES
Must be run as root:
.B sudo kiro-pci-latency
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/kiro-pci-latency.service
Systemd unit that runs this script at boot.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/kiro-common.sh
Shared library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
kiro-pci-latency --dry-run
sudo kiro-pci-latency
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR setpci (8),
.BR lspci (8),
.BR kiro-verify (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
