.TH KIRO-SKELL 8 "2026-05-31" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-skell \- copy /etc/skel to the home directory, backing up only the configs it overwrites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-skell
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-skell
copies the system skeleton directory
.RI ( /etc/skel )
into the current user's home directory.
This brings new default configuration files into use without losing
existing customisations permanently.
.PP
Before copying,
.B kiro-skell
backs up only the
.I ~/.config
entries that
.I /etc/skel/.config
will overwrite \(em not the whole
.IR ~/.config ,
which can hold gigabytes of browser and application cache. The subset is
copied to
.I ~/.config-backup-YYYY.MM.DD-HH.MM.SS/.config/
so the previous state of the overwritten configs can be restored. This is
the fast default; for a complete
.I ~/.config
backup, see
.BR kiro-skell-all (8).
.PP
The
.I /etc/skel
copy step itself is unchanged \(em it still overwrites everything.
.PP
In interactive mode (no
.BR \-\-dry\-run )
the user is prompted to confirm before any files are touched.
In
.B \-\-dry\-run
mode the confirmation prompt is skipped and only the commands are
displayed.
.PP
Useful when a tiling window manager is crashing: run
.B kiro-skell
in a TTY to restore default configs without needing a graphical session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be executed without making any changes.
Skips the interactive confirmation prompt.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/skel/
Source skeleton directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/
The entries matching
.I /etc/skel/.config
are backed up before overwriting.
.TP
.I ~/.config-backup-YYYY.MM.DD-HH.MM.SS/
Timestamped backup created by this script.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preview what would be copied:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-skell --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run interactively:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
kiro-skell
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-skell-all (8),
.BR cp (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
