.TH KIRO-SET-CORES-MIN2 8 "2026-06-01" "Kiro" "Kiro System Tools"
.SH NAME
kiro-set-cores-min2 \- configure makepkg.conf for the CPU core count minus two
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiro-set-cores-min2
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kiro-set-cores-min2
reads the available CPU core count with
.BR nproc (1)
and edits
.I /etc/makepkg.conf
so package builds use two cores fewer than the total, leaving two
cores free to keep the desktop responsive during long builds.
.PP
It makes two changes:
.IP 1. 4
Sets
.B MAKEFLAGS=\(dq-j\fIN\fR\(dq
where
.I N
is the core count minus two. Any existing
.B MAKEFLAGS
line \(em the commented
.BR #MAKEFLAGS=\(dq-j2\(dq
default or a value set by a previous run \(em is replaced.
.IP 2. 4
Changes
.B PKGEXT
from
.I .pkg.tar.xz
to
.IR .pkg.tar.zst ,
which is faster to compress and decompress.
.PP
On systems with too few cores the value is floored to
.BR \-j1 .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be executed without making any changes.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/makepkg.conf
File modified by this script.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/roman-os-common.sh
Shared library.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
kiro-set-cores-min2 --dry-run
kiro-set-cores-min2
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kiro-set-cores (8),
.BR kiro-set-cores-min1 (8),
.BR makepkg.conf (5),
.BR makepkg (8),
.BR nproc (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Erik Dubois <https://www.erikdubois.be>
